Align Plan embedded auth app upgrades guide with OIE modernization journey (#6333)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/oie-upgrade-plan-embedded-upgrades/main/index.md

<ApiLifecycle access="ie" />

> This guide is the most detailed checklist for upgrading an embedded authentication app from Classic Engine to Identity Engine. Use it during the Build step of the Modernize your sign-in and SSO flow with Okta Identity Engine journey, after you've chosen a deployment model.

Reviewer: > This guide is the most detailed checklist 

Are there other, less detailed guides out there? Maybe this could say "This guide provides a comprehensive checklist...."

<!-- TODO(OKTA-1216410 follow-up): link "Modernize your sign-in and SSO flow with Okta Identity Engine" to /docs/journeys/modernize-sso-flow-with-oie/main/ when that journey publishes (target: September monthly release). -->

> **Note:** If you haven't yet chosen a deployment model, start with Choose your OIE authentication modernization approach.
<!-- TODO(OKTA-1216410 follow-up): link "Choose your OIE authentication modernization approach" to /docs/guides/choose-oie-authentication-approach/main/ when that guide publishes (target: September monthly release). -->

## When to use this guide

> Use this guide if your app:

Reviewer: this needs to be a complete sentence for translation

* Embeds the Okta Sign-In Widget (Gen2). Okta delivers the Gen3 widget only as the Okta-hosted sign-in experience, which you can't self-host.
* Uses an Okta language SDK (Auth.js, Java, .NET, Node, Python, Go, or a mobile SDK) to authenticate users.
* Calls Classic Engine APIs (`/api/v1/authn`, Factors API, Sessions API) directly and is moving to a supported Identity Engine flow.

This guide isn't the right starting point if your app uses redirect authentication only. For redirect, see [Sign users in to your web app using the redirect model](/docs/guides/sign-into-web-app-redirect/main/) and the related platform-specific redirect guides.

Okta understands that upgrades can be stressful. Breaking the upgrade into steps helps you maintain the best user experience across your apps.

Okta doesn't recommend doing this upgrade all at once, but rather in sections with breaks for testing. This process is non-disruptive and iterative over time. Make the upgrade steps part of your normal product development process.

> After you complete the [initial upgrade process](/docs/guides/oie-upgrade-overview/#upgrade-process) for your orgs, walk through more steps to finish the upgrade. The steps you take depend on your deployment model, so plan them carefully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you complete the [initial upgrade process](/docs/guides/oie-upgrade-overview/#upgrade-process) for your orgs, complete the additional steps to finish the upgrade. The steps you take depend on your deployment model, so plan them carefully.
```

## Upgrade SDKs to the latest version in your apps

> When you're embedding authentication with our SDKs, review all the steps before you plan the upgrade to the latest SDK version. Also, plan to replace all Classic Engine authentication calls with Identity Engine calls. The following steps outline what your upgrade journey might look like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you embed authentication with our SDKs, review all the steps before you plan the upgrade to the latest SDK version. Also, plan to replace all Classic Engine authentication calls with Identity Engine calls. The following steps outline what your upgrade journey might look like.
```

1. [Update your custom authorization servers](/docs/guides/implement-grant-type/interactioncode/main/#set-up-your-authorization-server) to include the Interaction Code grant type.

2. [Update the app settings](/docs/guides/implement-grant-type/interactioncode/main/#enable-the-interaction-code-grant-on-an-application) of your embedded authentication apps to include the Interaction Code grant type.

>    > **Note:** Performing these steps doesn't change the way your authorization server or app behaves, but instead adds support for the new Identity Engine model. Enabling the Interaction Code grant type in your custom authorization server simply allows the server to accept a request of that type. The app behavior doesn't change until you [enable the Interaction Code in the embedded Sign-In Widget](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-common-download-setup-app/java/main/#initialize-the-sign-in-widget). At that point, replace your Classic Engine authentication API calls with the appropriate SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > **Note:** These steps don't change the way your authorization server or app behaves, but instead add support for the new Identity Engine model. Enabling the Interaction Code grant type in your custom authorization server simply allows the server to accept a request of that type. The app behavior doesn't change until you [enable the Interaction Code in the embedded Sign-In Widget](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-common-download-setup-app/java/main/#initialize-the-sign-in-widget). At that point, replace your Classic Engine authentication API calls with the appropriate SDK.
```

>    > **Note:** Performing these steps doesn't change the way your authorization server or app behaves, but instead adds support for the new Identity Engine model. Enabling the Interaction Code grant type in your custom authorization server simply allows the server to accept a request of that type. The app behavior doesn't change until you [enable the Interaction Code in the embedded Sign-In Widget](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-common-download-setup-app/java/main/#initialize-the-sign-in-widget). At that point, replace your Classic Engine authentication API calls with the appropriate SDK.

Reviewer: Is Interaction Code grant type a ui element?

   <!-- [move away from using Classic Authentication APIs to using the appropriate SDK](/docs/guides/). -->

3. Test your apps to verify that sign-in, sign-up, and password recovery still work as they did in Classic Engine.

4. Update your SDK.

    * Some SDK libraries have Identity Engine built into their newer version, such as the [Okta Auth JavaScript SDK](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js/blob/master/docs/migrate-from-authn-to-idx.md). For these, update your build script dependencies to collect the latest version.

    * Other libraries stay separate from their class forms. For these, add the newer SDK libraries to your build script dependencies. Then import them into your existing classes and project files.

    See [Add the Identity Engine SDK to your app](/docs/guides/oie-upgrade-add-sdk-to-your-app/main/) for detailed steps by language. <!-- (/docs/guides/oie-upgrade-add-sdk-to-your-app/-/main/) -->

> 5. Test your user flows with the new SDKs in your build, without any code changes. This confirms that your users can still access your app seamlessly.

Reviewer: > Test your user flows with the new SDKs in your build, without any code changes.

Does this mean test the flows or SDKs that don't have code changes? or don't add code changes when you do the test?

    * **Authentication**

>         * **Sign In:** In your new Identity Engine org, Okta maps the Organization Sign-On Policy to a global session policy. It maps app sign-on rules to the [corresponding app sign-in policy](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext-about-asop). Test that your user experience still works as it did in Classic Engine. If you have apps that use multifactor authentication, make sure that they still authenticate the same way. Apps should still work after you upgrade the policies.

Reviewer: I don't think Classic has an "Organization Sign-On Policy". Should it say just sign-on policy? (also, policy names are sentence case)

        > **Note:** Changing the global session policy affects all apps in an org.

        * **Sign Out:** Use the `revoke()` method in the SDKs rather than make calls to the Sessions API to manage Okta sessions. See [Revoke the access token](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-use-case-basic-sign-out/-/main/#_2-revoke-the-access-token).

>         If you tightly couple your app sessions with Okta sessions, you may need more work to separate them. See [Understand how sessions work after the upgrade](/docs/guides/oie-upgrade-sessions-api/).

Reviewer: What does it mean to tightly couple app sessions?

Author: Good question. It means your app treats Okta's own session as the source of truth for whether a user is signed in, for example by calling the Sessions API directly, instead of relying on its own tokens. Apps set up that way need extra work during the upgrade since session handling works a bit differently in Identity Engine. I reworded the sentence to spell this out instead of using "tightly couple."
